So these features that I'm showing you so
far have relatively been built
into Linux for a long time.
These are features of the kernel they've
intended, like I think this has been
around at least since, like root has been
around since the 70s at least, right?
Namespaces I think
are slightly more recent, but
I think we're still talking 2000-ish,
you may wanna fact check me on that.
But I think that's about right.
This last one is relatively recent.
It was invented at Google.
It's called control groups, right?
So Google had a problem that they would
like be running multiple different
processes, they'd be running these,
and like they trust each other, right?
So they are not worried about like
stealing each others' secrets inside of
Google, right?
So they were like cool, we're just running
processes right next each other, you run
your web server, I will run my web server,
we won't have different VMs form, right?
We'll just have them in their
like limited environments.
And they kinda had this problem though
like if someone on the Google Maps
team were to run away process, that might
kill like the Google Docs team's process,
right, cuz it kills the entire server,
right?
So what they wanted to do is
they wanted to limit how much
resources that one of these processes
would have access to, right?
And basically said like, look, you get
one core, or you get 10% of this CPU and
then once you're out of that,
I'm sorry, that's all you get, right?
Cuz I'm not gonna let you crash this
other team's running process, right?
So they came up with this
idea of control groups.
I think there was another name for
it previously,
actually they called it containers,
is what they called it.
But then they, that kinda started
applying to more than just control group.
So they changed that to C groups, right?
So that's what C groups are for,
it's this idea like,
I wanna limit how much CPU you have,
how much memory you have.
How much network bandwidth, like there's
a bunch of stuff that you can limit on.
We're just gonna be looking at CPU and
memory, but you can do control groups for
a lot of things, right?
So that's where it came from, but then it
turned out that this is a really cool and
interesting idea, because now,
I can do these unshared environments,
and then I can assign
control groups to them.
And also now I have these
contained processes that can't do
anything besides what I tell them to do,
right?
So you can execute arbitrary amounts
of code and do whatever you want.
But the only person that you're
gonna screw over is yourself, right?
You can't screw over anyone else and
that's kinda the idea
with containers here.
So, again, like a more real life example,
if we're running a hosting service, right?
And we have Bob and Alice that are running
their servers within our hosting
environment, we don't want it so that Eve
can connect it to the environment and
start messing with the other
people's processes, right?
She can just drop like something
that's gonna peg the CPU at 100%,
take all their resources, and
bring down their servers, right?
We wanna prevent that kind
of thing from happening.
So we need to have it so that it has
limited access to physical resources,
or physical, because most containers
are still run within VMs, right?
There's multiple levels
of virtualization here.
But for all intents and purposes,
we'll call these physical resources,
how much CPU, how much RAM,
those sorts of things.
Okay, so I'll say that like this
is a little bit more difficult to
accomplish than the things we've done
before that's more technical in nature.
So I invite you to just kind
of bear with me a little bit.
So the first thing we need
to do is we need to say apt,
this is again still within
our Ubuntu VM or container.
Apt get install, then we say -y,
cgroup-tools and
we're gonna install htop as well for
some fun later.
And neither one of those is very big.
So we just installed htop which is one of
my favorite tools, this'll actually give
you a nice visualization of what's
going on with your computer right now.
So even this container, I think my
computer has eight cores on it or
six cores or something like that.
You can see that this container in and
of itself using cgroups
only actually has technically access
to two, which is kind of interesting.
And I have eight gigs of RAM.
This one only actually has
access to 1.95 gigs of RAM.
So it's actually using cgroups
to accomplish this, right?
This little container
can't see anything else.
Okay, quit, quit, quit, okay.
So that's what htop is,
I quite like, it's a fun tool and
you can use it on Mac as well.
Okay, so the first thing we're gonna
do is we're gonna say cgcreate -g.
And we're gonna create a new control
group, that's what this does.
And it's gonna limit on cpu.memory io
which you type blkio.devices and
freezer, okay?
And then, we're gonna say :/sandbox.
Okay, this creates a new C group for us.
So I'm gonna come back over here
to my other Docker container.
And we're gonna run that
same unshared environment.
Actually, we can just do it from here
because I already ran it from here.
So this one.
So we're gonna have one of these go
back into an unshared environment.
Right, All right,
exact same command that we ran before.
So now this one is in an unshared
environment and now I'm gonna go and
actually assign a cgroup to this,
to control this one.
Now, you have to run this from the host,
right?
You can't run it from with like,
you can't say limit myself right?
I have to go back to the host and
do it from the host.
So I have another, I can see here, I can
see my unshared batch environment here.
So this is another process that I
have connected to the same container.
So I ran ps aux and I can see here
this batch right here is running.
So what I need is I need
this PID right here, 7607,
this will be different for
your computer, right?
Cuz how it assigns
the PID will be different
based on the computer you're running on.
So I need you to run ps aux.
And I need you to find the bash,
this one here.
That's the highest one probably,
unless you have multiple, right?
So you can see here I have 104.
104 is probably the one that I'm
actually doing right now, or
might have been the other one.
Doesn't matter, needs this one, right?
It'll come directly
right after the unshare.
So 7607, it'll be different for you.
And now what I want you to do
is I want you to say cgclassify
-g cpu,memory,blkio,devices,freezer
:sandbox.
If you can't tell, sandbox is the name
of the control group I've created here.
You can call it whatever you want.
And then I'm gonna put 7607.
So now, this bash and
all of its children processes,
right, because processes
spawn other processes.
They're all part of a process tree, right?
I'm saying, everything inside of that
process tree is now inside of this
control group.
Right now that doesn't mean anything,
right, because I haven't done anything.
But we're about to.
But if you wanna see
what's actually in there,
we can say
cat/sys/fs/cgroup/cpu/sandbox/tasks.
And you can see here, 7607, right?
So we can actually just directly
add to that as well, but
that's what CG classify does for us.
As it classifies that as inside
of this control group, okay?
So I want to see how
much resources it has so
I'm gonna say cat
/sys/fs/cgroup/cpu/sandbox/cpu.shares.
You can see here it has 1024, which means
that it has access to a core, I believe.
No, this is the priority, right?
So what you can say is like this is
a low priority control group, right?
So I can say that if this was like a five,
anything that was at 1024 would
get prioritized above it, right?
So if I have two competing things it'll
compare like what their priority is.
Now let's get into actually
limiting what's happening, right?
So we're gonna say cgset
-r cpu.cfs_period,
I would invite you to just copy and
paste this,
I actually really don't understand all of
the everything that's going on with these.
Like I said control groups are kind
of above my pay grade here.
But 100000 -r
cpu.cfs_quota.
So what we're doing here
is we're gonna try and
limit this to only use 10%
of the available CPU, right?
So it's actually gonna be 10% of
what's available in my container,
or 10% of the two cores that this
container has available to it.
Equals and
then we're gonna subshell this out
to 5000 times, this might even be 5%.
I think this might be 5%.
getconf N, that's a space, NPROCESSORS.
And that's gonna be for sandbox.
Okay, so I recognize that
that's a mess of a command.
But the idea here is this
particular c group, we said, hey,
anything inside of this tree, it can only
use 5% of the available processing power.
Okay, and
then we're gonna do one more cgset,
this one's a little bit
easier to understand,
cgset -r memory.limit_in_bytes= and
we're gonna say,
this has access to 80 megabytes, right?
Anything above that,
it just runs out of memory.
And we're gonna say sandbox, Okay,
and then here we can check it out.
We can say,
cgget -r memory.stat for sandbox.
And this'll output a bunch of stuff, but
we can see here this is the physical
limit of what it could go to, but
we're saying, hey, this is what 80
megabytes would be in bytes, right?
This only has access to 80 megabytes.
Okay, so now I'm gonna say htop just so
we can watch.
Right now there's not a lot
going on in my container, right?
And you can see this is
the PS ox down here.
So now I want you to go back
into your Docker container here.
And I'm gonna show you how to
pin a CPU just for fun, right?
Now, I don't recommend
dropping a fork bomb in here,
you have to do a bit more stuff to
prevent fork bombs from taking over your
computer because of how they work.
So don't do that.
Unless you want to crash your
computer in which case be my guest.
So one of my favorite things
in Linux is you can do yes and
all it does it just repeats Y forever,
right?
Or you can say yes, crap and
now it just says crap infinitely.
So if I say yes into /dev null,
which is just a scream into the void
basically that's the equivalent
of what this command is.
What this is gonna do,
is it's going to pin the CPU for
this particular process, right?
It's gonna take as much
CPU as it possibly can.
So if go back over here to Docker,
you can see here it's taking about 12%.
Where is the, yes,
it's right there, right?
Now if this wasn't inside of this,
this would totally pin the CPU for us,
right, 100%.
But because we're using C groups,
it's keeping that contained within
this one particular secret.
That's pretty cool, right?
We've artificially limited
this particular process.
And despite the fact that it's trying
to screw us over, we just say nope.
The only thing you can do is you can
take everything inside of here and
you can burn that.
And then you're just
out of luck after that.
Cool.
So let's do it for the memory too.
Stop that and we'll say, We're gonna use
the S again, but we're gonna do some
more fanciness, which honestly, I don't
understand exactly what's going on here.
I pulled this 100% off of stack
overflow like most of my code.
But this is going to consume as
much memory as it possibly can.
The idea here is it's going to continually
fill our memory until it runs out of
memory.
So again,
if we look back back here at our hswap.
You can see here, our memory
usage went up quite a bit, right?
But this has 1.95 gigabytes worth of RAM,
and
it's only consuming about
80 megabytes of it, right?
So you can see here, I think it'll
show it, there's a CPU percentage.
Can I scroll down, there you can.
So you can see here it's consuming
3.2% ish worth of memory, right,
which is not a lot, right,
cuz we limited to only 80 megabytes.
And actually, since I didn't show
you that with the other one,
let's run the other one again just for
fun.
We'll go back over here to this htop and
you can see the CPU here pegged at 10%.
So we basically created
a container by hand, right?
Not totally,
you still need Docker, believe me.
But this is essentially what
Docker is accomplishing for
you underneath the hood, right?
Again it does more for you there
like create volumes and networks and
manage a bunch of stuff for you.
But at its core,
the container system is this.
>> So Docker will handle all the C group?
>> Yep.
I would say most people that use
Docker don't know what C groups are.
[LAUGH] Cuz you never have to know, right?
It just manages all that stuff for you.
So now you can go and
be like snooty jerks to your obstacles,
like I know what cgroups are and
then just walk away.
That's what I would do.
I probably should stop this over here.
So, just for funsies.
Let's try this, yes into, so at now I'm
outside of my change of environment.
And if I say yes into/dev/null.
This might be painful.
You can see here,
it's totally pinning one of these cores.
Because now it's outside of the cgroups,
right?
And again, if we go back and
look again, it should be unpinned.
So this is as far as we're going to go
with manually creating containers by hand.
LIke everything that I've shown you so
far, this has been an academic exercise so
that you understand what Docker
is actually going to do for you.
For the rest of the class,
we're going to be using higher
level tools that's just gonna
manage all this stuff for you.
Again, I don't think you really ever need
to know these things that I've shown you,
but now that you do you know
exactly what's happening.
And I think again, if you understand
the complexity of your tools,
you embrace them, right?
Now you understand that
what Docker is doing for
you, you're gonna be a lot more
grateful that someone took the time to
build Docker, right?
Rather than,
next time you have a Docker problem,
you can just wanna throw your laptop.
At least you'll be a little bit grateful.